This is a self-made note meant to serve as a broad guideline as to which test to pick for certain questions regarding series convergence/divergence.

---

The general Idea of computing whether a certain series converges or diverges is to compare the series to another series that is more deal-able or to see how different terms behave in comparison to each other and in comparison to terms of other series.

## Tools under our belt 

### Tests That Compare different Sums/Sequence Terms
- [[Maths/Calc 2/10. Convergence Tests#The Direct Comparison Test|Direct Comparison Test]]
	You encapsulate a certain series by bounding terms as $0 \leq a_{n} \leq b_{n}$
	$a_{n}$ being divergent $\implies$ $b_n$ diverges 
	$b_n$ being convergent $\implies$ $a_{n}$ converges
	
- [[Maths/Calc 2/10. Convergence Tests#Connecting the two Sums (discrete and continuous) further - The Integral Test|Integral Test]]
	In a few cases, it is simpler to evaluate an integral than a sum. For a positive, decreasing series, the converging behavior of the integral and that of the sum is identical. (since you can bound one over the other using either Left-hand Sums or Right-hand Sums)

- [[Maths/Calc 2/10. Convergence Tests#Corollary (p-test for series)|P-Test]]
	A standard case of the Direct Comparison test, stemmed from the Integral Test where you know how single term polynomials behave. You compare each polynomial to a critical case of $\sum \frac{1}{n}$ which diverges. Any polynomial that grows faster that $n$ would cause the denominator to grow faster, hence decreasing the value of each term $\frac{1}{p}$, causing the series to converge.
		($ln(n)$ grows slower than any polynomial. A consequence is that $\frac{1}{n+ln(n)}$ still diverges)

- [[Maths/Calc 2/11. General Convergence and Divergence#Absolute Convergence Test|Absolute Convergence Test]]
	For a series with terms with alternating sign, if $\sum |a_{n}|$ converges, then since $a_{n} \leq |a_{n}|$ and if anything, $a_{n}$ would just cancel out as terms grow, $\sum a_{n}$ converges too. (Divergence yields no conclusive results)

- [[Maths/Calc 2/10. Convergence Tests#Limit Comparison Test|Limit Comparison Test]]
	If the limiting fraction of two series is a finite, non-zero number, their terms of the two series are finite multiples of each other. Hence, both series have same convergent behavior (If sum of certain terms is converging, sum of their finite multiples would also converge).
	The behavior is governed only by the highest degree term in the polynomial!

### Tests That Use the Behavior of the terms of a Series itself 
- [[Maths/Calc 2/9. Series#The Divergence Test|Divergence Test]]
	If the term $a_{n}$ of a series doesn't converge to $0$, then there is no way the series converges to a finite value.
	It is as if you would be adding infinitely many non-zero terms. The sum would certainly diverge.

#### Finding General Term for $S_n$ 
- [[Maths/Calc 2/9. Series#Geometric Series|Geometric Series]]
	When there is a common ratio between two terms of a series ($a_{n} = ar^{n}$). The series has a general formula $\displaystyle S_{N} = ar^{k}\frac{1-r^{N+1-k}}{1-r}$ 
	where $N$ is the upper bound. (a variation with $n$ terms from $r^{0}$th term is $a\frac{1-r^n}{1-r}$)
	The infinite series (the sum $S_{N}$ as $N \to \infty$) converges only if $|r|<1$

- [[Maths/Calc 2/9. Series#Telescoping Series|Telescoping Series]]
	Sometimes, adding terms with a certain offset leads to a telescoping behavior where $S_{n}$ tends to have cancelling terms in the middle. Taking the limit of this $S_{n}$ as $n \to \infty$ gives you the value of the infinite series.

#### Limiting Ratio of Terms
It turns out that the following happen to tell us how a series eventually behaves like a geometric series and what common ratio do the terms eventually end up having.

>Refer to [[Maths/Calc 2/11. General Convergence and Divergence#Why they work|Why they work]] to know why they work.

- [[Maths/Calc 2/11. General Convergence and Divergence#Ratio Test|Ratio Test]]
	The limiting ratio between terms of a sequence can be written as $\lim_{n \to \infty} \frac{a_{n+1}}{a_{n}}$
	If this ratio is 1. That means in the limit, the terms tend to be the same. I.e. they converge. We do NOT know what they converge to... so that is inconclusive.
	If the ratio is $>$ 1, that means the terms are growing. Hence, it is certain that the series would diverge.
	If in the limit, the ratio of $<$ 1, that means even in the limit, the terms are always decreasing. Hence, the series converges.

- [[Maths/Calc 2/11. General Convergence and Divergence#Root Test|Root Test]]
	It just so turns out that $\lim_{n \to \infty} \sqrt[n]{a_{n}}$  also gives the limiting ratio of the terms in a series. Similar to the Ratio test, this compares the behavior to a geometric series in the limit that we go infinitely far away into the series.


---
# General Guideline
Given a series... 
- First look at what it's terms do and look like.
	- Is it a **Geometric/Telescoping** series?
	- Does it closely **resemble another series**?
		- In the limit, is there a **dominant term** that you *know the behavior of*? (Use the **Limit Convergence test** to see if the limiting behavior truly resembles the behavior of your hypothesized series by taking $\lim_{n \to \infty} \frac{a_{n}}{ h_{n}}$ where $h_{n}$ is the hypothesized dominant term (NOT THE RATIO OF THE NUMERATOR AND DENOMINATOR ITSELF).
		- If instead your know can **think of a certain function** that is always less than or equal to the function (such as having a bound for Trigonometric functions) given that you know the behavior of, you can use the **Direct Comparison test**
- If it is difficult to tell what the terms do (approach zero or boom to infinity) because of some weird combination of factorials, $nth$ roots and polynomials along with trigonometric functions
	- Use the **Root test** for any Factorials you see since they cancel out.
	- Otherwise use the **Ratio test**. (Although not necessary to remember, $lim_{n \to \infty} \sqrt[n]{n!}= \frac{1}{e}$)


---
