## Recall 
The Taylor Series for $f(x)$ centered at $x=c$ is $\sum^{\infty}_{n=0} \frac{f^{(n)}c}{n!}(x-c)^{n}$

We came to play around with this for $e^{x}$ by taking advantage of $\frac{d}{dx}e^{x} = e^{x}$ and $e^{0}=1$
to realize $e^{x} = \sum^{\infty}_{n=0} \frac{x^{n}}{n!}$.

---
### More examples 
$f(x) = \sqrt{x}$, centered at $x=1$

$f'(x) = \frac{1}{2\sqrt{x}}$
$f''(x) = \frac{-1}{4x^\frac{3}{2}}$
$f'''(x) = \frac{3}{8x^{\frac{5}{2}}}$
$f''''(x) = \frac{-15}{16x^\frac{7}{2}}$
$1^{n}= 1$
$f^{(n)}(1) = 1,\frac{1}{2},\frac{-1}{4},\frac{3}{8}$
$c_{n} = \frac{f^{(n)}1}{n!} = 1,\frac{1}{2},\frac{-1}{8},\frac{1}{16}$
Hence, $\sum^{\infty}_{n=0}c_{n}(x-c)^{n} = 1 + \frac{1}{2}(x-1) - \frac{1}{8}(x-1)^{2} + \frac{1}{16}(x-1)^{3}+ \dots$

the pattern isn't yet clear
But then looking carefully, terms are taking a form of alternative negative signs, product of odd numbers, and product of 2's in denominator.

$\sum^{\infty}_{n=0} c_{n} = \frac{(-1)^{n-1} (\prod^{n}_{0}(2n-1))}{2^{n}n!}$

Ahaa! Actually! That is not it! You have to present it as $a + b(x-1) + \sum \dots$
So you sometimes have to break up the sum to write a suitable form.

It is not always necessarily to find a neat pattern at all. Unless asked for the nth term, you can leave it as it is until an obvious pattern is there.

---
## Taylor Polynomial
#def The $nth$ order Taylor Polynomial for $f(x)$ centered at $x=c$ is 
$T_{n}(x) = f(c) + \frac{f'(c)}{1!}(x-c) + \frac{f''(c)}{2!}(x-c)^{2} \dots \frac{f^{n}(c)}{n!}(x-c)^{n}$

Example, the 3rd order Taylor Polynomial for $\sqrt{x}$ centered at $x=1$ is $1 + \frac{1}{2}(x-1) - \frac{1}{8}(x-1)^{2} + \frac{1}{16}(x-1)^{3}$.
(We just calculated it)

Essentially, just find the Taylor series up until the $x^{n}th$ term.

---
### Example Problems 
- Find the fourth order Taylor polynomial for $f(x)=sin(x)$ centered at $x=0$.
$f(x)=sin(x)$
$f'(x)=cos(x)$
$f''(x)=-sin(x)$
$f'''(x)=-cos(x)$
$f''''(x)=sin(x)$

Hence, $T_{4}(x) = sin(0) + \frac{cos(0)x}{1!} + \frac{-sin(0)x^{2}}{2!} + \frac{-cos(0)x^{3}}{3!} + \frac{sin(0)x^{4}}{4!} = \frac{x}{1!} - \frac{x^{3}}{3!}$

Note, it is not a $nth$ *degree* Taylor polynomial. It is just an $nth$ *ORDER* approximation because the polynomial is not guaranteed to have an $nth$ degree term.

**$T_{n}(x)$ is the best polynomial approximation of degree $\leq n$ for $f(x)$ for values close to c.**
By “best”, we mean this polynomial would have the lowest cost function value.

The first order approximation is a Linear Approximation which more many cases is close enough.

Notice how this is why $sin(x) \approx x$
A more closer approximation in would be $x - \frac{x^{3}}{3!}$ (the 4th degree approximation of $sin(x)$)

---

The Taylor Series may be the function that truely does approximate the function (as long as the remainder term goes to zero which often happens for at least a finite interval).

A finite number of terms... the Taylor polynomial usually falls slightly short at times, also still very practical.
In fact, for $f(x)$ being polynomials, a Taylor polynomial would actually equal the function $f(x)$.


---

## Standard Maclaurin Series to know 

$e^{x} = \sum^{\infty}_{n=0} \frac{x^{n}}{n!}$, IOC is $(- \infty, \infty)$
$sin(x) = \sum^{\infty}_{n=0} \frac{(-1)^{n} x^{2n+1}}{(2n+1)!}$, IOC is $(- \infty, \infty)$ (kinda why it is an odd function!)
$cos(x) = \sum^{\infty}_{n=0} \frac{x^{n}}{n!}$, IOC is $(- \infty, \infty)$
$\frac{1}{1-x} = \sum^{\infty}_{n=0} x^n$, IOC is $(- 1, 1)$
$atan(x) = \sum^{\infty}_{n=0} \frac{(-1)^{n} x^{2n+1}}{(2n+1)}$, IOC is $[-1,1]$
$\ln(1-x) = \sum^{\infty}_{}$


Functions that can be written as a taylor series are called analytical function


